---
title: I've Found It
description: Something Incredibly Close to a Personal Database
layout: post
permalink: /blog/obsidian/
tags: hidden dev opensource linux
---

### Last Post:

I wanted to find something similar to a personal database without having to actually write any database code. Ideally this would be for non-programmers, or tired programmers. Something to hold literally everything and keep it synced between devices with something like syncthing or something built in.

This does pretty much everything.

### The Solution:

[Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) is a piece of note taking software that I had been previously using just for note-taking. The idea is that you can create links between notes that you take and follow them like a [personal wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_wiki).

The only problem was that I wanted a better interface for some plaintext-backend database to allow for stupid easy task management. Text todo's are just a little too hard to edit and update. I'd wrather 3 mouse clicks on a calendar gui to update a date than to think about editing up to 1/12/2022 number of characters.

I just discovered something about [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/): it has this kind of stuff! But, you need to disable safe mode to allow for community plugins such as calendar side-view kanban boards, and more.

Another note: if you happen to like using vim, don't worry, it's got a good enough vim style input option hidden deep in the settings.

Now I don't have to complete my project where I probably would have spent a good week or so figuring out how to use gtk to make my own version of this.

See ya!