---
title: My 2023 Android Setup
description: What I'm Using on My Phone This Upcoming Year
layout: post
permalink: /blog/android-2023/
tags: android software phone 2023 recomendation
---

Here's a quick rundown of what I'm going to be running on my phone.

I get my software from these sources preferably in this order:
1. Fdroid
2. Izzy Droid Fdroid [Repo](https://apt.izzysoft.de/fdroid/repo?fingerprint=3BF0D6ABFEAE2F401707B6D966BE743BF0EEE49C2561B9BA39073711F628937A){:target="_blank"}
3. Google Play

## Tracker Control (TC) on F-Droid

Blocks most ads and trackers inside of apps in android, without this, I wouldn't feel comfortable installing random software straight from the PlayStore. [Tracker Control on F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/net.kollnig.missioncontrol.fdroid/){:target="_blank"}.

## Syncthing

Syncs photos, documents, backups, et cetera back and forth between my computers and my phone. Very usefull in niche scenarios. If you don't want to use a cloud photo backup system, you can setup a folder to "send only" to a computer with lots of storage, then you can also setup your computer to ignore photo deletions from your phone's folder. [Docs found here](https://docs.syncthing.net/users/foldertypes.html){:target="_blank"}.

## PostBox Focus

Postbox Pro takes your notifications and spreads them out so you aren't bothered constantly throughout the day. You can choose which apps you see instantly, and which ones are delayed. It turns your phone into more of a mailbox than a constant river of information. I like it, the effect is subtle but helpful.
Postbox pro can be found on the PlayStore [here](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=app.serendipitylab.postboxpro){:target="_blank"}.

## Conclusion
I have no monetary incentive to share these specific applications. I'm sharing them because I think that they can be helpful to anyone. If you found any of this helpful, feel free to reach out to me on Mastodon or by email, would love to hear from you. If there's software that you think I should have talked about, feel free to send me a message. Have a great day!